seo is tough and usually requires a big
team wouldn't it be great if there was a
way to do seo when you're a solo
entrepreneur
look there is hey everyone i'm neil
patel and today i'm gonna break down a
realistic approach to seo for busy solo
entrepreneurs
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
if you don't have a big team or any team
for that matter of fact i want you to
focus
just on two things
number one optimizing existing content
and number two
creating new content so let's go over
optimizing existing content first
first use google search console google
search console will show you hey
what content is getting impressions and
which content is getting clicks and also
shows your click-through rate
what impressions mean is someone's
searching on google for a keyword that
you're ranking for
and they may or may not click on your
site
the click says a percentage of those
people what the percentage is they're
actually clicking over to your site
right they're typing in keyword they
click those are the number of clicks you
get and the click through rate just
takes you know your clicks divided by
your impressions and it gives you a
ratio like twenty percent ten percent
two percent
and i want you to improve your
click-through rate and the way you end
up doing that is look at the keywords
that are sitting on page two are those
keywords in your title tag are they
within your meta description
is your title tag and meta description
you know very relevant from uh appealing
perspective think of copywriting how can
you persuade someone to click through
you don't want to use clickbait in the
sense that you dupe them into clicking
and then when they go to the page they
don't find what they're looking for but
you want to use persuasive copy
the next thing i like doing is putting
in the keywords that you're seeing in
google search console within to those
pages as well so now that you just put
them in your title tag and meta
description also put them within the
content sometimes you already have those
keywords sometimes you won't just make
sure they're in there and you're
covering that topic because that'll help
you rank higher second use uber suggests
ubersys has a rank tracking feature that
you can get started for free and you can
see which ones of your keywords are
getting more traction and less traction
over time it'll tell you which keywords
are getting more traction on mobile or
even desktop devices or even in certain
regions
another feature i want you to use in
uber says is a content ideas report this
shows you all the other people that have
content around similar keywords like
your competitors and they'll even show
you their social shares and the
backlinks and the headlines that they're
using what's cool about this it'll give
you more keywords that you can end up
using within your article give you
headline ideas based on what's popular
on the social shares and you can even
email the people that are linking to
your competitors and hit them up and ask
them to link to you
third use google analytics i want you to
improve your dwell time i want you to
identify the content pieces that are
underperforming and consolidate them
with the pages that are doing well on
the same topic
look even if you have a page that has
100 backlinks and another one with 10
backlinks it doesn't mean the one with
100 backlinks is going to get more
traffic if you found that the one with
100 backlinks is getting two visitors a
month does it really matter if it's
getting 100 backlinks no 301 redirected
to the one that's getting 10 vis
that's getting way more visitors
hundreds of visitors and that one has is
very similar it's almost on the same
thing just 301 redirect the one that has
way more backlinks into the one that has
less backlinks and you should see your
overall traffic go even higher on that
page
now let's go over creating new content
first let's find keyword opportunities
that you can rank for go to ubersas use
a keyword ideas report you can find in
the left hand navigation
and type in keywords related to your
space
you'll see more keyword recommendations
from questions prepositions comparisons
related keywords there's many different
tabs and it'll show you the keyword
difficulty for any of those keywords and
how hard or easy it is to rank
what's cool with ubersuggest is you can
actually put in your domain name and
it'll show you the probability of
ranking on page one and it'll then
filter all those keywords based on
what'll work for you based on your
domain authority based on how old your
site is so that way you have the highest
chances of ranking it's a cool little
feature that we recently had and i love
it
then i want you to go to competitive
analysis report on uber cs this is where
you can put in a competitor url it'll
show you their top pages by traffic show
you the social shares for those pages
and it'll even show you all the keywords
that the competitors page ranks for and
then you can go over to their site and
look at that page and be like oh this is
the content that they have i can create
something way better than this and then
i want you to go and create something
way better than and i want you to hit up
everyone that links to the competitor
because you can see the people who link
to your competitor in uber says and hit
them up and ask them to link to you
second let's analyze your competitors
for new keywords you want to target
you'll see a report within uber suggests
in the compare analysis that just shows
you all the keywords your competitors
rank for and i want you to look at the
ones that are relevant to your business
and go after them the next feature new
process you should check out is the serp
analysis within the keyword ideas report
so we're already in the keyword ideas
report but when you click on a keyword
you can see all the top 10 people ranked
for that keyword the backlinks the
social shares the strength of the
websites other topics that are mentioned
by the competitors and this will give
you idea
of hey this is how i create content that
covers the whole topic
for example if you're creating content
around paid ads it's not just about paid
ads it's paid ads then you can have a
topic cluster and go in-depth into
things like google ads facebook ads
reddit ads instagram ads um tick-tock
ads snapchat ads linkedin ads right so
when you do that you're more likely to
rank
now that we're going away from uber's
test what i want you to also focus on is
writing content that is at least 50
better than everyone else who's ranking
for that keyword look if you're just
gonna create more me too content then
you're not gonna do that well if you go
above and beyond you will do better now
last but not least i want to wrap up
this video by covering a few other
things that you should know
on-page seo will produce better outcomes
if you're managing an older website in
the early days you can pretty much solve
your on-page seo by just decreasing your
load time and if you decrease your load
time your page will load faster and
which also boosts conversion rates but
also making sure not to use two large
images with two high resolutions you
want to compress them
and as you create new content you wanna
work on your title tags meta description
tags heading tags which just helps you
rank
you wanna have a site map having a
sitemap just helps ensure that google
can crawl your pages and you want to
take the xml site method submit it to
google search console
you want to have a good mobile
experience if you have a lot of
text-based articles use the amp
framework which just makes the mobile
experience way better
and make sure that your robots.txt or
your meta tags you're not blocking any
of the major crawlers or any pages that
you shouldn't be blocking
and just overall if you had to break it
down when i cover all these tactics in
this video of how much time you should
be spending on them for the on-page
basics you should spend a couple days to
a week setting up you know your cdn your
cache your image compression amp sitemap
robots.txt
you can even use plugins like
the yoast seo plugin
and when it comes to creating content
you should be spending two to eight
hours per week depending on how
competitive your niche is
and how amazing your content needs to be
in order to outperform your competition
and when it comes to editing content
four to ten hours per month if you
really tuned into content performance
metrics and you want to devote time and
to explain opportunities from let's say
getting things from page two to page one
or boosting conversions but that's how
much time you should spend and to
clarify on the on-page side that should
be more of a one-off thing and then once
you get it going you should still
fine-tune it you know maybe a few times
a month or
once a quarter or once a year depending
on how often you're changing your site
and how big your site is if your site's
really big you could actually spend a
lot of time on on-page seo and it could
be a dvp you may have people full-time
focused on it if you need help with your
seo check out my ad agency neil patel
digital if you enjoyed the video like it
share it tell the people about it
thank you for watching